## Working with LM35 & LM335 temperature sensors

### What are these sensors?
These are linear temperature sensors that output a voltage value proportional to the temperature value 

LM35 outputs 10 mV per degrees Celsius rise in temperature. 
LM335 outputs 10 mV per degrees Kelvin rise in temperature.

Say, if the LM335 outputs a voltage of 2980 mV = 2.98V, then the temperature value is 298K

Find their datasheets [LM35](https://www.ti.com/lit/ds/symlink/lm35.pdf) and [LM335](https://www.ti.com/lit/ds/symlink/lm335.pdf)

### Code Explanation

Start by defining the pin that is connected to the sensor output. It must be an analog pin (Here it is pin no 26).

   ```
 const int Temp_Pin = 26; //This code records temp from LM335 and displays on serial monitor
   ```
   
Define a variable that will hold the analog value read from the sensor (Raw_Val) and a variable to store the actual voltage output value coming from the sensor
  ``` 
  float Raw_Val;
  float Voltage_Out;
 ```
 Also define variables to store temperature values in Celcius, Kelvin and Fahrenheit 
 ```
float temp_C, temp_F, temp_K;
```
In setup, you put the code to run once, One Time Setup and pin initialisations
(at a baud rate of 115200. Baud rate specifies how fast data is sent over a serial line. It’s usually
expressed in units of bits-per-second (bps).)

```
void setup() {
  pinMode(Temp_Pin, INPUT);
  Serial.begin(115200);
}
```
In the loop(), we have to read the value from sensor and save it in Voltage_Out variable.
To read an analog value, need to use analogRead() function and pass the pin you want to read as an argument.

The analog values read from our board will have a value between 0 and 4096, 
This means that you can get analog readings ranging from 0 to 4095, in which 0 corresponds to 0V and 4095 to 3.3V.
So, we can easily get the output voltage of the sensor in mV.
The ESP32 ADC pins don’t have an exact linear behavior. So, its hard distinguish between 0 and 0.1V, or between 3.2 and 3.3V.
```
void loop() {
  Raw_Val = analogRead(Temp_Pin);
  Voltage_Out = (Raw_Val * 3300) / (4096);

  // calculate temperature for LM35 (LM35DZ) 
  //temp_C = Voltage_Out/ 10; //(uncomment if LM35)
  //temp_F = (temp_C * 1.8) + 32;

  // calculate temperature for LM335
  temp_K = Voltage_Out / 10;
  temp_C = temp_K - 273;
  temp_F = (temp_C * 1.8) + 32;
```
Printing Temperature values in C & F on serial monitor.

The loop() is repeated every second.
```
  Serial.print("Temperature(ºC): ");
  Serial.print(temp_C);
  Serial.print("  Temperature(ºF): ");
  Serial.print(temp_F);
  Serial.print("  Voltage(mV): ");
  Serial.println(Voltage_Out);
  delay(1000);
}
   ```
